Randomness

random [ ran-duhm ]

adjective
1. proceeding, made, or occurring without definite aim, reason, or pattern.
1. Statistics: characterising a process of selection in which each item of a set has an equal probability of being chosen.

noun
1. something that is random, or a random state or condition.
2. Slang.
- a person or thing that is unknown, unidentified, or suspiciously out of place.
- a person or thing that is odd or unpredictable.
---
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randomness
---
Randomness is the lack of pattern or predictability in events. A random sequence has no order and does not follow an intelligible pattern. Individual random events are by definition unpredictable, but often the frequency of different outcomes over many events is predictable. Randomness is a measure of uncertainty of an outcome, rather than haphazardness, and applies to concepts of chance. The fields of mathematics, probability, and statistics use formal definitions of randomness. 

Random variable
In statistics, a random variable is an assignment of a numerical value to each possible outcome of an event space. This association facilitates the identification and the calculation of probabilities of the events. Random variables can appear in random sequences. 

Random process
A random process is a sequence of random variables whose outcomes do not follow a deterministic pattern, but an evolution. These and other constructs are useful in probability theory and the various applications of randomness.

Random selection
Random selection, when associated with a simple random sample, is a method of selecting items from a population where the probability of choosing a specific item is the proportion of those items in the population. For example, with a bowl containing 10 red marbles and 90 blue marbles, a random selection mechanism would choose a red marble with probability 1/10. 

In situations where a population consists of items that are distinguishable, a random selection mechanism requires equal probabilities for any item to be chosen. 
---
History

In ancient history, the concepts of chance and randomness were intertwined with that of fate. Many ancient peoples threw dice to determine fate, and this later evolved into games of chance. Most ancient cultures used various methods of divination to attempt to circumvent randomness and fate.

The Chinese of 3000 years ago were the earliest people to formalise odds and chance. The Greek philosophers discussed randomness at length, but only in non-quantitative forms. It was only in the 16th century that Italian mathematicians began to formalise the odds associated with various games of chance. The invention of the calculus had a positive impact on the formal study of randomness. 
---
Randomness in the world

In the physical sciences
In the 19th century, scientists used the idea of random motions of molecules in the development of statistical mechanics to explain phenomena in thermodynamics and the properties of gases.

In biology
The modern evolutionary synthesis ascribes the observed diversity of life to random genetic mutations followed by natural selection. The latter retains some random mutations in the gene pool due to the systematically improved chance for survival and reproduction that those mutated genes confer on individuals who possess them.

In mathematics
The mathematical theory of probability arose from attempts to formulate mathematical descriptions of chance events, originally in the context of gambling, but later in connection with physics. Statistics is used to infer the underlying probability distribution of a collection of empirical observations. For the purposes of simulation, it is necessary to have a large supply of random numbers or means to generate them on demand.

In statistics
In statistics, randomness is used to create simple random samples. This lets surveys of completely random groups of people provide realistic data. Common methods of doing this include drawing names out of a hat or using a random digit chart. A random digit chart is a large table of random digits.

In information science
In information science, irrelevant or meaningless data is considered noise. Noise consists of numerous transient disturbances with a statistically randomised time distribution.
---
Generation

It is generally accepted that there exist three mechanisms responsible for random behaviour in systems:
- Randomness coming from the environment
- Randomness coming from the initial conditions. This aspect is studied by chaos theory.
- Randomness generated by the system. This is also called pseudo randomness and is the kind used in pseudo-random number generators. 
---
Quotes
https://www.azquotes.com

Creativity is the ability to introduce order into the randomness of nature.
Eric Hoffer

So much of life, it seems to me, is determined by pure randomness.
Sidney Poitier

Letting go of randomness is one of the hardest decisions a person can make.
Douglas Coupland

Random numbers should not be generated with a method chosen at random
Donald Knuth
